# Gold Sonic Cat NFT Collection Backend

## Execution Instructions

### `ENV` File Setup

1. Create a `.env` file at the root level
2. Add all of these variables inside it.

```bash
GOERLI_RPC_URL=https://eth-goerli.g.alchemy.com/v2/...
PRIVATE_KEY=...
ETHERSCAN_API_KEY=...
PINATA_API_KEY="..."
PINATA_API_SECRET="..."
UPLOAD_TO_PINATA=false
UPDATE_FRONTEND=false
```

Get the GOERLI RPC URL from [Alchemy Dashboard](https://www.alchemy.com/)  
Get the PRIVATE KEY from your Metamask Wallet.  
Get the ETHERSCAN API KEY from [Etherscan Dashboard](https://etherscan.io/)  
Get the PINATA API KEY & SECRECT from [Pinata Cloud](https://www.pinata.cloud/)  
Read the below instructions to see their use.  

### Deploy Files Setup

There are two files inside deploy folder which will run when you use the `npx hardhat deploy` command.

1. `01-deploy-nft.ts` file will deploy the contract on the network of your choice (Make sure to set the settings for your prefered network in side `hardhat.config.ts` file).
2. `02-update-frontend.ts` file will automatically update the contractAddresses and latest ABI of your smart contract for your frontend.

#### 1. `01-deploy-nft.ts` file setup

1. For minting the NFT, its metadata file will be required which will contain the information about your NFT and image hash (for generating see the **Scripts Files Setup Section**) for that specify the hash of metadata file at this line `const metadataIpfsHash: string = "";`
2. Update the name of your NFT at this line `const nftName: string = "Gold Sonic Cat";`
3. Update the symbol of your NFT at this line `const nftSymbol: string = "GSC";`
4. If you want to update the mint fee (Default is `0.01` ETH) then head over to `helper-hardhat-config.ts` file and specify under the network object.

#### 2. `99-update-frontend.ts` file setup

1. You can turn on `UPDATE_FRONTEND` variable inside `.env` file to `true` when you want to update the contractAddresses and ABI on the frontend side.
2. By default the frontend folder in place inside the same folder of backend, but if you change the location of frontend folder in your pc then update these two variables.

```js
const FRONTEND_CONTRACT_ADDRESSES_FILE_PATH: string =
    "../frontend/src/constants/contractAddresses.json";
const FRONTEND_ABI_FILE_PATH: string = "../frontend/src/constants/abi.json";
```

### Scripts Files Setup

There are three scripts inside this folder;

1. `upload-image-to-pinata.ts` which upload you NFT image on pinata.
2. `upload-metadata-pinata.ts` which upload your NFT metadata on pintata.
3. `mint-nft.ts` which mint the nft.

#### 1. `upload-image-to-pinata.ts` file setup

1. Make sure you add the `PINATA_API_KEY` and `PINATA_API_SECRET` inside `.env` file.
2. Add your NFT image inside the **images/** folder.
3. Update the image file path at this line `const IMAGE_FILE_PATH: string = "images/nft-cat.png";`
4. Update the image file name for pinata server at this line `const response = await pinata.pinFileToIPFS(readableStreamForFile, {
            pinataMetadata: { name: "nft-cat.png" },
        });`

#### 2. `upload-metadata-pinata.ts` file setup

1. Make sure you add the `PINATA_API_KEY` and `PINATA_API_SECRET` inside `.env` file.
2. Metadata template has some predefined attributes for NFT which you can change according to your NFT. For more info read here [Opensea Metadata Standard](https://docs.opensea.io/docs/metadata-standards).
3. Update the name of you NFT at this line `nftMetadata.name = "Gold Sonic Cat";`
4. Update the description of your NFT Collection at this line `nftMetadata.description =
        "Cute little Gold Sonic Cat loves to gather gold coins in the game.";`
5. Specify the hash of your NFT (generated by above script) at this line `const ipfsHash: string = "";`
6. Update the metadata file name for your pinata server (if you want) at this line `const response = await pinata.pinJSONToIPFS(nftMetadata, {
            pinataMetadata: { name: "nft-metadata.json" },
        });`

